calico/reference/resources/bgppeer.md, before:

---
title: BGP peer
description: API for this Calico Enterprise resource.
canonical_url: '/reference/resources/bgppeer'
---

A BGP peer resource (`BGPPeer`) represents a remote BGP peer with
which the node(s) in a {{site.prodname}} cluster will peer.
Configuring BGP peers allows you to peer a {{site.prodname}} network
with your datacenter fabric (e.g. ToR). For more
information on cluster layouts, see {{site.prodname}}'s documentation on
[{{site.prodname}} over IP fabrics]({{site.baseurl}}/reference/architecture/design/l3-interconnect-fabric).

For `kubectl` commands, the following case-insensitive aliases may be used to specify the resource type on the CLI: `bgppeer.projectcalico.org`, `bgppeers.projectcalico.org` as well as abbreviations such as `bgppeer.p` and `bgppeers.p`.

### Sample YAML

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
  name: some.name
spec:
  node: rack1-host1
  peerIP: 192.168.1.1
  asNumber: 63400
```

### BGP peer definition

#### Metadata

| Field       | Description                 | Accepted Values   | Schema |
|-------------|-----------------------------|-------------------|--------|
| name     | Unique name to describe this resource instance. Must be specified.| Alphanumeric string with optional `.`, `_`, or `-`. | string |

#### Spec

| Field       | Description                 | Accepted Values   | Schema | Default    |
|-------------|-----------------------------|-------------------|--------|------------|
| node     | If specified, the scope is node level, otherwise the scope is global. | The hostname of the node to which this peer applies. | string | |
| peerIP   | The IP address of this peer and an optional port number. If port number is not set, and peer is Calico node with `listenPort` set, then `listenPort` is used. | Valid IPv4 or IPv6 address. If port number is set use, `IPv4:port` or `[IPv6]:port` format. | string | |
| asNumber | The remote AS Number of the peer. | A valid AS Number, may be specified in dotted notation. | integer/string |
| nodeSelector | Selector for the nodes that should have this peering.  When this is set, the `node` field must be empty. | | [selector](#selector) |
| peerSelector | Selector for the remote nodes to peer with.  When this is set, the `peerIP` and `asNumber` fields must be empty. | | [selector](#selector) |
| keepOriginalNextHop | Maintain and forward the original next hop BGP route attribute to a specific Peer within a different AS. | | boolean |
| extensions | Additional mapping of keys and values. Used for setting values in custom BGP configurations. | valid strings for both keys and values | map | |
| password   | [BGP password]({{site.baseurl}}/security/comms/secure-bgp) for the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource. |  | [BGPPassword](#bgppassword) | `nil` (no password) |
| sourceAddress  | Specifies whether and how to configure a source address for the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "UseNodeIP" means to configure the node IP as the source address.  "None" means not to configure a source address. | "UseNodeIP", "None"  | string | "UseNodeIP" |
| failureDetectionMode  | Specifies whether and how to detect loss of connectivity on the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "None" means nothing beyond BGP's own (slow) hold timer.  "BFDIfDirectlyConnected" means to use BFD when the peer is directly connected. | "None", "BFDIfDirectlyConnected"  | string | "None" |
| restartMode  | Specifies restart behaviour to configure on the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "GracefulRestart" means traditional graceful restart.  "LongLivedGracefulRestart" means LLGR according to draft-uttaro-idr-bgp-persistence-05. | "GracefulRestart", "LongLivedGracefulRestart"  | string | "GracefulRestart" |
| maxRestartTime  | Restart time that is announced by BIRD in the BGP graceful restart capability and that specifies how long the neighbor would wait for the BGP session to re-establish after a restart before deleting stale routes.  When specified, this is configured as the graceful restart timeout when `RestartMode` is "GracefulRestart", and as the LLGR stale time when `RestartMode` is "LongLivedGracefulRestart".  When not specified, the BIRD defaults are used, which are 120s for "GracefulRestart" and 3600s for "LongLivedGracefulRestart". Note: extra care should be taken when changing this configuration, as it may break networking in your cluster. |  | duration | None |
| birdGatewayMode  | Specifies the BIRD "gateway" mode, i.e. method for computing the immediate next hop for each received route, for peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "Recursive" means "gateway recursive".  "DirectIfDirectlyConnected" means to configure "gateway direct" when the peer is directly connected. | "Recursive", "DirectIfDirectlyConnected"  | string | "Recursive" |
| numAllowedLocalASNumbers | The number of local AS numbers to allow in the AS path for received routes. This disables BGP loop prevention and should only be used if necessary. | | integer | `nil` (BIRD will default to 0 meaning no change to loop prevention behavior) |

> **Tip**: the cluster-wide default local AS number used when speaking with a peer is controlled by the
> [BGPConfiguration resource](./bgpconfig).  That value can be overridden per-node by using the `bgp` field of
> the [node resource](./node).
{: .alert .alert-success}

#### BGPPassword

> **Note:** BGP passwords must be 80 characters or fewer.  If a password longer than that
> is configured, the BGP sessions with that password will fail to be established.
{: .alert .alert-info}

| Field        | Description                     | Schema           |
|--------------|---------------------------------|------------------|
| secretKeyRef | Get the password from a secret. | [KeyRef](#keyref) |


#### KeyRef

KeyRef tells {{site.prodname}} where to get a BGP password.  The referenced Kubernetes
secret must be in the same namespace as the {{site.nodecontainer}} pod.

| Field    | Description                         | Schema |
|----------|-------------------------------------|--------|
| name     | The name of the secret              | string |
| key      | The key within the secret           | string |


### Peer scopes

BGP Peers can exist at either global or node-specific scope. A peer's scope
determines which `{{site.nodecontainer}}`s will attempt to establish a BGP session with that peer.
If `{{site.nodecontainer}}` has a `listenPort` set in `BGPConfiguration`, it will be used in peering.

#### Global peer

To assign a BGP peer a global scope, omit the `node` and `nodeSelector` fields. All nodes in
the cluster will attempt to establish BGP connections with it

#### Node-specific peer

A BGP peer can also be node-specific. When the `node` field is included, only the specified node
will peer with it. When the `nodeSelector` field is included, the nodes with labels that match that selector
will peer with it.

### Supported operations

| Datastore type        | Create/Delete | Update | Get/List | Notes
|-----------------------|---------------|--------|----------|------
| Kubernetes API server | Yes           | Yes    | Yes      |

### Selector

{% include content/selectors.md %}

[parse-duration]: https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration

Commit message:

Add generalized TTL security mechanism (GTSM)

calico/reference/resources/bgppeer.md, after:

---
title: BGP peer
description: API for this Calico Enterprise resource.
canonical_url: '/reference/resources/bgppeer'
---

A BGP peer resource (`BGPPeer`) represents a remote BGP peer with
which the node(s) in a {{site.prodname}} cluster will peer.
Configuring BGP peers allows you to peer a {{site.prodname}} network
with your datacenter fabric (e.g. ToR). For more
information on cluster layouts, see {{site.prodname}}'s documentation on
[{{site.prodname}} over IP fabrics]({{site.baseurl}}/reference/architecture/design/l3-interconnect-fabric).

For `kubectl` commands, the following case-insensitive aliases may be used to specify the resource type on the CLI: `bgppeer.projectcalico.org`, `bgppeers.projectcalico.org` as well as abbreviations such as `bgppeer.p` and `bgppeers.p`.

### Sample YAML

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcalico.org/v3
kind: BGPPeer
metadata:
  name: some.name
spec:
  node: rack1-host1
  peerIP: 192.168.1.1
  asNumber: 63400
```

### BGP peer definition

#### Metadata

| Field       | Description                 | Accepted Values   | Schema |
|-------------|-----------------------------|-------------------|--------|
| name     | Unique name to describe this resource instance. Must be specified.| Alphanumeric string with optional `.`, `_`, or `-`. | string |

#### Spec

| Field       | Description                 | Accepted Values   | Schema | Default    |
|-------------|-----------------------------|-------------------|--------|------------|
| node     | If specified, the scope is node level, otherwise the scope is global. | The hostname of the node to which this peer applies. | string | |
| peerIP   | The IP address of this peer and an optional port number. If port number is not set, and peer is Calico node with `listenPort` set, then `listenPort` is used. | Valid IPv4 or IPv6 address. If port number is set use, `IPv4:port` or `[IPv6]:port` format. | string | |
| asNumber | The remote AS Number of the peer. | A valid AS Number, may be specified in dotted notation. | integer/string |
| nodeSelector | Selector for the nodes that should have this peering.  When this is set, the `node` field must be empty. | | [selector](#selector) |
| peerSelector | Selector for the remote nodes to peer with.  When this is set, the `peerIP` and `asNumber` fields must be empty. | | [selector](#selector) |
| keepOriginalNextHop | Maintain and forward the original next hop BGP route attribute to a specific Peer within a different AS. | | boolean |
| extensions | Additional mapping of keys and values. Used for setting values in custom BGP configurations. | valid strings for both keys and values | map | |
| password   | [BGP password]({{site.baseurl}}/security/comms/secure-bgp) for the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource. |  | [BGPPassword](#bgppassword) | `nil` (no password) |
| sourceAddress  | Specifies whether and how to configure a source address for the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "UseNodeIP" means to configure the node IP as the source address.  "None" means not to configure a source address. | "UseNodeIP", "None"  | string | "UseNodeIP" |
| failureDetectionMode  | Specifies whether and how to detect loss of connectivity on the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "None" means nothing beyond BGP's own (slow) hold timer.  "BFDIfDirectlyConnected" means to use BFD when the peer is directly connected. | "None", "BFDIfDirectlyConnected"  | string | "None" |
| restartMode  | Specifies restart behaviour to configure on the peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "GracefulRestart" means traditional graceful restart.  "LongLivedGracefulRestart" means LLGR according to draft-uttaro-idr-bgp-persistence-05. | "GracefulRestart", "LongLivedGracefulRestart"  | string | "GracefulRestart" |
| maxRestartTime  | Restart time that is announced by BIRD in the BGP graceful restart capability and that specifies how long the neighbor would wait for the BGP session to re-establish after a restart before deleting stale routes.  When specified, this is configured as the graceful restart timeout when `RestartMode` is "GracefulRestart", and as the LLGR stale time when `RestartMode` is "LongLivedGracefulRestart".  When not specified, the BIRD defaults are used, which are 120s for "GracefulRestart" and 3600s for "LongLivedGracefulRestart". Note: extra care should be taken when changing this configuration, as it may break networking in your cluster. |  | duration | None |
| birdGatewayMode  | Specifies the BIRD "gateway" mode, i.e. method for computing the immediate next hop for each received route, for peerings generated by this BGPPeer resource.  Default value "Recursive" means "gateway recursive".  "DirectIfDirectlyConnected" means to configure "gateway direct" when the peer is directly connected. | "Recursive", "DirectIfDirectlyConnected"  | string | "Recursive" |
| numAllowedLocalASNumbers | The number of local AS numbers to allow in the AS path for received routes. This disables BGP loop prevention and should only be used if necessary. | | integer | `nil` (BIRD will default to 0 meaning no change to loop prevention behavior) |
| ttlSecurity | Enables the generalized TTL security mechanism (GTSM) which protects against spoofed packets by ignoring received packets with a smaller than expected TTL value. The provided value is the number of hops (edges) between the peers. | 0 - 255 | 8-bit integer | `nil` (results in BIRD configuration `ttl security off`) |

> **Tip**: the cluster-wide default local AS number used when speaking with a peer is controlled by the
> [BGPConfiguration resource](./bgpconfig).  That value can be overridden per-node by using the `bgp` field of
> the [node resource](./node).
{: .alert .alert-success}

#### BGPPassword

> **Note:** BGP passwords must be 80 characters or fewer.  If a password longer than that
> is configured, the BGP sessions with that password will fail to be established.
{: .alert .alert-info}

| Field        | Description                     | Schema           |
|--------------|---------------------------------|------------------|
| secretKeyRef | Get the password from a secret. | [KeyRef](#keyref) |


#### KeyRef

KeyRef tells {{site.prodname}} where to get a BGP password.  The referenced Kubernetes
secret must be in the same namespace as the {{site.nodecontainer}} pod.

| Field    | Description                         | Schema |
|----------|-------------------------------------|--------|
| name     | The name of the secret              | string |
| key      | The key within the secret           | string |


### Peer scopes

BGP Peers can exist at either global or node-specific scope. A peer's scope
determines which `{{site.nodecontainer}}`s will attempt to establish a BGP session with that peer.
If `{{site.nodecontainer}}` has a `listenPort` set in `BGPConfiguration`, it will be used in peering.

#### Global peer

To assign a BGP peer a global scope, omit the `node` and `nodeSelector` fields. All nodes in
the cluster will attempt to establish BGP connections with it

#### Node-specific peer

A BGP peer can also be node-specific. When the `node` field is included, only the specified node
will peer with it. When the `nodeSelector` field is included, the nodes with labels that match that selector
will peer with it.

### Supported operations

| Datastore type        | Create/Delete | Update | Get/List | Notes
|-----------------------|---------------|--------|----------|------
| Kubernetes API server | Yes           | Yes    | Yes      |

### Selector

{% include content/selectors.md %}

[parse-duration]: https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration
