07 November 2019

## What's new

### Fully integrated Elasticsearch

{{site.prodname}} manages an Elasticsearch cluster for flow logs, DNS logs,
audit logs, and compliance reports. Before installing {{site.prodname}}, configure
persistent storage for the elastic cluster, see:
[configure storage for logs and reports](../getting-started/create-storage).

### Staged policies

{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}} introduces the ability to view the potential
impact of network policies on live traffic. This lets you stage a policy,
view the effect on live traffic, and then "enforce" the policy if the behavior
is correct.

### Custom alerts, and DNS feeds

{{site.prodname}} introduces the ability to set custom alert criteria based
on collected flow, DNS, and audit logs. See:
[Alerts](../security/threat-detection-and-prevention/alerts).

In addition, {{site.prodname}} adds the ability to trace DNS queries involving
suspicious domains. See:
[trace and block suspicious domains](../security/threat-detection-and-prevention/suspicious-domains).

### Dual top-of-rack and BGP enhancements

{{site.prodname}} provides simple support for a dual plane cluster to provide
redundant connectivity between workloads, see
[custom BGP configuration guide](../networking/custom-bgp-config).

### Operator-based installation

{{site.prodname}} introduces operator-based installations which greatly simplifies
installation and maintenance of {{site.prodname}}, see:
[installation reference](../reference/installation/api)

### Compliance for Amazon EKS

{{site.prodname}} provides compliance reporting and CIS benchmarks for Amazon EKS.
See: [CIS benchmark compliance reports for Kubernetes](../security/compliance-reports-cis)

## Upgrade notes

#### Upgrading from {{site.prodname}} v2.5 or earlier

Please note there are additional steps required to upgrade from previous versions of
{{site.prodname}}.  Please follow the appropriate upgrade procedure depending on how
you installed:
- [Kubernetes manual install](../maintenance/kubernetes-upgrade-tsee)
- [Kubernetes HELM install](../maintenance/helm-upgrade-tsee)

Note that the operator-based install process does not support upgrades from
previous versions of {{site.prodname}}.

## Technical preview features

### Policy Recommendations

{{site.prodname}} enables operators and developers to use the flow visualizer to
view and select unprotected traffic flows as input to a policy recommendation
engine. These flows define the scope of the desired network policy and the
recommendation engine leverages {{site.prodname}}’s traffic analysis to
algorithmically determine the right set of ingress and egress policy rules.

## Known issues

With operator installs, Application Layer Policy (ALP) is always enabled in the
UI, and cannot be disabled.
