12 October 2018

## What's new

#### Application layer policy

Leveraging the open source [Istio](https://istio.io/) project, application layer policy:

- Enables even finer-grained policies using application layer attributes such as
  HTTP methods and paths.

- Uses [Secure Production Identity Framework For Everyone (SPIFFE)](https://spiffe.io/),
  to identify pod workloads.

- Secures pod-to-pod traffic with mutually-authenticated TLS.

- Adds another point of policy enforcement with an [Envoy sidecar proxy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/).

- Can integrate with existing public key infrastructure (PKI) systems.

To try out this beta feature, install {{site.tseeprodname}},
[enable application layer policy](../getting-started/kubernetes/installation/app-layer-policy),
and try the [Application layer policy tutorial](../getting-started/kubernetes/tutorials/app-layer-policy/).
Available only on Kubernetes.

#### Flow logs

{{site.tseeprodname}} now generates detailed flow logs, affording better insight into pod traffic with
source/destination pod names, namespace, traffic direction, and more. For the full list of flow log
contents, refer to [Flow logs](../usage/logs/elastic/flow).

The {{site.tseeprodname}} Manager offers [flow log visualizations](../usage/logs/elastic/view#view-in-mgr),
making it easier to troubleshoot connectivity issues and design policies.

#### Audit log enhancements

This release of {{site.tseeprodname}} enables audit logs by default, making it easier to achieve compliance
with records of changes to policies and network sets. Refer to
[Audit logs](../usage/logs/elastic/ee-audit) for more information.

#### Federation enhancements

We've enhanced the existing federation feature set to include service
discovery. This allows you to create Kubernetes services that span multiple
clusters while still keeping fine-grained policy.

For more information, see the [Federation overview](../usage/federation).

Federation is only available on Kubernetes.

#### {{site.tseeprodname}} API reference documentation

This release also adds full [{{site.tseeprodname}} REST API reference documentation](../reference/cnx/apidocs).

#### Better support for advanced networking on etcd

{{site.tseeprodname}} {{page.version}} provides better support for advanced networking use cases on etcd, such as
dual top-of-rack BGP peering and password protection of BGP peers. Contact Tigera support for more details.

## Known issues

- On Kubernetes clusters deployed with kops, network policy does not work as expected when trying
  to reach services via their cluster IP or DNS name. This can result in traffic being allowed when
  it should be denied or vice versa. For the latest status on this kops defect and a workaround,
  refer to [issue 4674 in the kops repo](https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/issues/4674).

- You may experience difficulty [enabling OpenShift audit logs for Kubernetes resources](../usage/logs/elastic/ee-audit#openshift).
  Audit logs for {{site.tseeprodname}} resources will still be available.
