01 February 2019

## What's new

#### Anomaly detection

{{site.tseeprodname}} {{page.version}} adds anomaly detection to find anomalies that may indicate
a compromise of your network or cluster.

It operates based on flow logs, which can be continuously analyzed or checked over a specific
time range.  The jobs can detect IP sweeps, port scans and unusual traffic or destinations.

To get started using anomaly detection, [enable the jobs](../usage/intrusion-detection/enabling),
and then [view any anomalies](../usage/intrusion-detection/viewing-anomalies).  More detailed
descriptions of the jobs can be found [here](../usage/intrusion-detection/job-descriptions).

#### Application layer policy

Application layer policy enables finer grained policy using HTTP methods and paths and secures
pod-to-pod traffic with mTLS.

Application layer policy is now GA.  In addition to the functionality in the beta, ALP now supports:
- DropActionOverride, enabling policy to be audited before applying it, and
- HTTP action information in flow logs, telling you how many requests were allowed and how many were
  denied.

Once you've installed {{site.tseeprodname}}, you can
[enable application layer policy](../getting-started/kubernetes/installation/app-layer-policy),
and try the [Application layer policy tutorial](../getting-started/kubernetes/tutorials/app-layer-policy).
Available only on Kubernetes.

#### AWS security group and network policy integration

{{site.tseeprodname}} {{page.version}} allows you to associate AWS security groups with Kubernetes pods.
This allows you to enable connectivity between Kubernetes pods and other AWS resources, such as EC2
instances and RDS databases while still being able to enforce fine grained security.
This is accomplished by integrating the AWS Security Group and Kubernetes Network Policy models.

Detailed information on using this feature can be found [here](../usage/aws-security-group-integration/).
To get started using this integration, install {{site.tseeprodname}}, then
[enable the AWS SG integration on your cluster](../getting-started/kubernetes/installation/aws-sg-integration).

This feature is only available with the AWS CNI plugin, and is therefore Kubernetes only.
The cluster must be within a single VPC.

#### Policy changelog in {{site.tseeprodname}} manager

{{site.tseeprodname}} Manager now displays the change history of network policies.

From the view or edit page for a policy, you can:
- View the changes to that policy, including time, user and verb and expand the
  row to see the policy at that time.
- View diffs indicating what changes happened to the policy between any two
  previous states.
- View diffs between pending unsaved changes and the current (or a previous) saved version.

Please note that the changelog displayed is for a given policy name, so tier changes
or switching between Kubernetes and Calico policies start a new changelog.  All events
can always be viewed in the Kibana audit logs dashboard.

#### {{site.tseeprodname}} manager policy UI enhancements

{{site.tseeprodname}} {{page.version}} introduces a number of UI enhancements
- Multiple policies can now be selected and moved between tiers at once.
- Tiers can be selectively hidden from display.
- All policies can be expanded simultaneously in the grid view.
- The flow log visualization now animates between states, making it easier
  to understand context when zooming in on flows.

#### Finer grained tiered policy RBAC

NetworkPolicy and GlobalNetworkPolicy RBAC can now be configured differently on a per tier basis.
For example, a user can be given read access to policies in one tier and write access to policies
in another.

Consult the guide to [configuring tiered policy RBAC](../reference/cnx/rbac-tiered-policies) to
get started using the new finer grained RBAC.

Action is required when [upgrading from v2.2 or earlier releases](../getting-started/kubernetes/upgrade/upgrade-tsee).
The old behavior (policy RBAC applies equally to all tiers the user can GET) can be retained, or 
you can migrate your RBAC configuration by following those steps.

#### Support for shared Elasticsearch clusters

One Elasticsearch cluster can now be shared between multiple {{site.tseeprodname}} clusters.
To share an Elasticsearch cluster, [configure each Kubernetes cluster with a unique cluster name](../usage/logs/configure-elastic#customizing-the-index-names-when-sharing-elasticsearch-clusters).

#### Flow log filtering

High volume low importance flow logs can now be filtered out before they reach Elasticsearch.
To set up flow log filtering, follow the [filtering documentation](../usage/logs/elastic/filtering).

#### Elasticsearch index rotation

The default retention periods are 7 days for flow logs and 366 days for audit logs.
To adjust these durations, follow the instructions [here](../usage/logs/configure-elastic#configuring-retention-periods-for-elasticsearch-logs).

#### Elasticsearch log archiving to S3

{{site.tseeprodname}} {{page.version}} introduces the ability to archive flow and audit logs to
Amazon S3 for long term storage of compliance data.
If you wish to use this feature, [this page](../usage/logs/elastic/s3-archive) describes how
to configure {{site.tseeprodname}} to connect to your bucket.

## Upgrade notes

#### Upgrading from {{site.tseeprodname}} v2.2 or earlier

{{site.tseeprodname}} v2.3 introduces a change to how RBAC is applied to network policy resources
that requires explicit actions when upgrading from a previous {{site.tseeprodname}} release.
The upgrade instructions can be found [here](../getting-started/kubernetes/upgrade/upgrade-tsee).

> **Important**: Failure to follow the upgrade procedure will result in non cluster-admin users
> being unable to perform any operations on NetworkPolicy and GlobalNetworkPolicy resources.
{: .alert .alert-danger}

## Known issues

- Application Layer Policy is unavailable on OpenShift.  We intend to add support once
  Istio is supported on OpenShift.