05 August 2019

## What's new

### Policy Preview Mode

{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}} introduces the ability to preview the impact of a
policy change in the UI before applying the change.  This lets you make policy changes
with confidence by checking it doesn't impact traffic you weren't intending to affect.

The predicted impact is based on the recent flow logs recorded in your cluster.

For more information on this feature, see the [guide](../security/policy-impact-preview).

### Ingress Flow Ingestion and Correlation

In past versions, it was possible to detect north-south traffic that violated policy
through flow logs, but it was difficult to correlate the flow inside the cluster
that triggered the violation with the external source on the other side of the 
ingress controller.

{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}} adds the ability to record which inbound connection
to the ingress controller correlates to a flow inside the cluster, enabling end
to end identification of north-south traffic as well as east-west.

To get started, follow this [guide](../security/logs/elastic/ingress).

### CIS Benchmark Compliance Reports

{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}} adds [CIS benchmark](https://www.cisecurity.org/cis-benchmarks/)
reports to the existing compliance reporting feature.  This makes it easy to meet
compliance requirements relating to these benchmarks.  The reports can be scheduled
and viewed in the UI similarly to the existing inventory, policy audit and network access reports.

To start generating these reports, follow these [instructions](../security/compliance-reports-cis).

### DNS Logging and Wildcard Support

DNS logs are now collected for the cluster.  These logs record metadata about the
originating pod, as well as the query and response.  For more details on these logs,
please see [here](../security/logs/elastic/dns).

Wildcards are now supported in DNS policies, for example `prefix.*.domain.com`.
This allows DNS policy to be used in a wider range of applications.

### Anomaly Detection 

The results of anomaly detection jobs are now analyzed and displayed in filtered form
in the {{site.prodname}} UI.  This curation significantly reduces the number of false
positives presented, and the new page improves the user experience of interacting with
the anomalies.

The underlying raw severity scores for each event are still available in Kibana.

## Upgrade notes

#### Upgrading from {{site.prodname}} v2.4 or earlier

Please note there are additional steps required to upgrade from previous versions of
{{site.prodname}}.  Please follow the appropriate upgrade procedure depending on how
you installed:
- [Kubernetes manual install](../maintenance/kubernetes-upgrade-tsee)
- [Kubernetes HELM install](../maintenance/helm-upgrade-tsee)
- [OpenShift](../maintenance/openshift-upgrade-tsee).

## Technical preview features

### Google Kubernetes Engine

Support for GKE in non-production clusters is available in 
{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}}. See
[Installing {{site.prodname}} on GKE](../getting-started/kubernetes/installation/gke).

### Azure Kubernetes Service

Support for AKS in non-production clusters is available in 
{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}}. See
[Installing {{site.prodname}} on AKS](../getting-started/kubernetes/installation/aks).

### Firewall manager integration

{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}} adds a feature that synchronizes
[Panorama](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/products/management/panorama)
zone-based policies with {{site.prodname}} network policies. Contact Tigera
customer success for more information.

## Known issues

None.
