test-tools/test-monitoring/scripts/README.md, before:

# Helpful scripts

This directory contains a number of simple, but helpful scripts described below.

### apply-all.sh

This script applies all the infrastructure necesary for monitoring the tests in one go.
Namely, it installs Prometheus, Grafana.

### clear-prometheus.sh

This script resets prometheus data by deleting all running prometheus instances and
letting them get re-created.  This is useful for resetting state between tests.

### delete-all.sh

The counterpart to `apply-all.sh` - this deletes all this infrastructure from the cluster.

### gather-client-logs.sh

Gathers all the logs from clients pods created by the test using `kubectl logs`.

### gather-felix-logs.sh

Gathers `calico/node` logs from each instance running on the cluster using
`kubectl logs`.

### gather-logs-the-hard-way.sh

Scrapes logs via gcloud ssh - can be used when kubectl isn't working.

### gather-prometheus.sh

Generates `.tar` files of the data from each running prometheus instance and
stores it locally so it can be viewed after the cluster has been torn down.

### reapply-grafana-dash.sh

Re-applies grafana dashboards in the case where the configuration is lost
or failed to apply.

### lb2nodeport.sh

Changes LoadBalancer services into Nodeport services, for when your cluster
doesn't have the cloud integration installed for creating LBs.

Commit message:

DE-2671: Titan POC - Managed cluster scale testing tool (#8037)
* Readme and yaml

* README for titan

* Scripts to install k8s web dashboard

* Cleanup steps

* Add k8s-dashboard install and uninstall scripts

* change file perms for scripts

* Add script that sets up kube prometheus grafana monitoring locally

* Update readme

* Update scripts

* Create single yaml manifest with fake-guardian and log-gen together

* Add startup script to install titan

* Update install script

* Update readme

* More setup instructions

* More concise steps

* watch for rollout status

* fix cmd

* Specify tenantId and change real linseed endpoint to fake-guardian service endpoint

* Update titan readme

* Change linseed ep

* Update manifest

* add svc account name

* Fix volume mounts, separate ones needed for each CA bundle

* Update install script

* Cleanups and add some todo comments

* Add optional statements to install script

* Readme update

* Readme update

* Readme update

* Readme update

* Readme update

* Readme update

* PR feedback

* PR feedback

* Change prom metrics port for log gen to avoid conflict with fake guardian port

* Update step 1 in the install script

* Take out k8s dashboard

test-tools/test-monitoring/scripts/README.md, after:

# Helpful scripts

This directory contains a number of simple, but helpful scripts described below.

### apply-all.sh

This script applies all the infrastructure necessary for monitoring the tests in one go.
Namely, it installs Prometheus, Grafana.

### clear-prometheus.sh

This script resets prometheus data by deleting all running prometheus instances and
letting them get re-created.  This is useful for resetting state between tests.

### delete-all.sh

The counterpart to `apply-all.sh` - this deletes all this infrastructure from the cluster.

### gather-client-logs.sh

Gathers all the logs from clients pods created by the test using `kubectl logs`.

### gather-felix-logs.sh

Gathers `calico/node` logs from each instance running on the cluster using
`kubectl logs`.

### gather-logs-the-hard-way.sh

Scrapes logs via gcloud ssh - can be used when kubectl isn't working.

### gather-prometheus.sh

Generates `.tar` files of the data from each running prometheus instance and
stores it locally so it can be viewed after the cluster has been torn down.

### reapply-grafana-dash.sh

Re-applies grafana dashboards in the case where the configuration is lost
or failed to apply.

### lb2nodeport.sh

Changes LoadBalancer services into Nodeport services, for when your cluster
doesn't have the cloud integration installed for creating LBs.

### prometheus_grafana_stack
Contains scripts that will setup the kubernetes, prometheus, and grafana monitoring stack on your cluster using helm. It comes pre-loaded with several useful kubernetes cluster, deployment, and pod level dashboards.
