24 April 2018

#### Federated identity in Kubernetes

With {{site.tseeprodname}} v2.1, you can manage pods and endpoints across clusters. We provide
manifests to deploy this feature in on-premise clusters using the Kubernetes API datastore
and Typha. Read more about this new feature in
[Federated Endpoint Identity for Kubernetes]({{site.url}}/{{page.version}}/usage/federation).

#### Enhanced metrics and new Manager panes

This release of {{site.tseeprodname}} gathers additional metrics. You can now query per tier,
policy, or rule to discover the following.

- Connections per second
- Packets allowed and denied
- Bytes allowed and denied

In addition, the {{site.tseeprodname}} Manager provides better visibility into cluster policy
with three new panes.

- **Dashboard**: graphical view of policy-related activity in your cluster
- **Endpoints**: more details about each endpoint, such as any unprotected endpoints
- **Nodes**: more information about each node

#### Audit logging support

{{site.tseeprodname}} now supports audit logging of create, read, update, and delete (CRUD)
operations on the following {{site.tseeprodname}} resources.

- **Kubernetes API datastore**: any
- **etcd**: `GlobalNetworkPolicy`, `NetworkPolicy`, `Tier`

You can export the audit logs to a third party aggregator like Logstash, Splunk, or Fluentd.

To enable audit logging, refer to [Resource Auditing with Kubernetes]({{site.url}}/{{page.version}}/reference/cnx/auditing)
and [Resource Auditing in OpenShift]({{site.url}}/{{page.version}}/reference/cnx/openshift-auditing).

#### Smoother logins on OpenShift

The new {{site.tseeprodname}} Manager offers a smoother login experience for OpenShift users.

#### Easier access to documentation

We now host the {{site.tseeprodname}} documentation on a public website for easier access and live
updates.

#### Faster Kubernetes quickstart

This release includes an extensible shell script that cuts the time to get started by two-thirds.
You can now stand up a Kubernetes cluster with {{site.tseeprodname}} in ten minutes or less.

#### Introducing GlobalNetworkSets

{{site.tseeprodname}} now supports a new resource type: GlobalNetworkSet. A GlobalNetworkSet
contains a set of CIDRs with associated labels, which can be matched by global network policies.
This allows for rules to refer to external networks, possibly consisting of thousands of CIDRs.
GlobalNetworkSets allow you to write network policies that are more portable across clusters by
introducing a label-based abstraction on top of network CIDRs. To learn more, see the
[GlobalNetworkSet resource definition]({{site.url}}/{{page.version}}/reference/calicoctl/resources/globalnetworkset).

#### Kubernetes IPv6 support

{{site.tseeprodname}} v2.1 includes fixes which better support running an IPv6-based Kubernetes cluster.
In {{site.tseeprodname}} v2.1, you can now use the Kubernetes API datastore in IPv6 mode. Additionally,
{{site.tseeprodname}} now generates a /48 unique local address (ULA) prefix when no IPv6 pool is specified
rather than using a fixed CIDR. This prevents multiple {{site.tseeprodname}} clusters from sharing the
same IPv6 address space. Check out the documentation on [enabling IPv6 support](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.1/usage/ipv6) for more information.

#### Host endpoint support for Kubernetes API datastore
{{site.tseeprodname}} now supports configuration of host endpoints when using the Kubernetes API datastore.
This allows you to seamlessly apply network policy to Kubernetes host machines and Kubernetes pods
alike using {{site.tseeprodname}} global network policies.