07 May 2019

## What's new

#### Compliance Reporting

{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}} introduces a compliance dashboard, and the ability to generate
compliance reports.  

The following types of reports can be created:
- Inventory reports detailing the policies and white/black list status of endpoints, namespaces and services.
- Network access reports containing network statistics (egress, ingress, mTLS, policies) for endpoints.
- Policy audit reports containing a record of the changes to an asset.

The endpoints, namespaces or service accounts a report should cover can be configured, as well
as the schedule on which to generate the reports.  Report summaries
can be viewed in the {{site.prodname}} Manager UI and the full reports can be downloaded.

After you've installed {{site.prodname}}, you can view the documentation for the feature [here](../reference/compliance-reports).

#### DNS Policies

Users can now create global network policies that refer to fully qualified domain names.  This will
enable cluster administrators to enforce best practice default deny egress policy.

Example use cases for this feature include:
- Limiting egress access to only certain internet resources.
- Providing egress access to certain cloud services.

Domain names can be written directly into policy rules, or placed in
[GlobalNetworkSets](../reference/calicoctl/resources/globalnetworkset), which allow
a collection of related domain names to be referred to at once.

Note that DNS names can only be used in egress allow (whitelist) rules in global policies.
This prevents an untrusted endpoint from being able to evade the policy by accessing an IP directly.

For more details on using DNS policies, see the documentation [here](../security/domain-based-policy).

#### HELM installation

[HELM](https://helm.sh) provides an easy way to install {{site.prodname}} by customizing settings
in a single place (a chart) and then installing in one command.

To get started, follow the [HELM installation procedure](../getting-started/kubernetes/installation/helm).

#### Suspicious IP detection and prevention

{{site.prodname}} {{page.version}} can integrate with a threat feed to detect
outbound connections to suspicious IPs.  This can also be configured to
block connections to the IPs.

There is a graphical UI that displays the alerts that allows security teams trace
events down to the originating endpoint.

More details on this feature can be found [here](../security/threat-detection-and-prevention/suspicious-IPs).

#### Cluster audit view in {{site.prodname}} manager

{{site.prodname}} Manager now includes a timeline of network policy changes.
Individual changes can be examined, and the list can be filtered by user,
operation, date, or resource type or name.

## Upgrade notes

#### Upgrading from {{site.prodname}} v2.2 or earlier

{{site.prodname}} v2.3 introduced a change to how RBAC is applied to network policy resources
that requires explicit actions when upgrading from a previous {{site.prodname}} release.
The upgrade instructions can be found [here](../maintenance/kubernetes-upgrade-tsee).

> **Important**: Failure to follow the upgrade procedure will result in non cluster-admin users
> being unable to perform any operations on NetworkPolicy and GlobalNetworkPolicy resources.
{: .alert .alert-danger}

## Other Enhancements
- docs.tigera.io top-level navigation menus were updated and existing content was reorganized to match.
- The {{site.prodname}} Manager was moved into the calico-monitoring namespace.
- The {{site.prodname}} Manager and {{site.prodname}} API Server were split into their own manifests.
- Calico was updated to v3.6.1

## Known issues

- Application Layer Policy is unavailable on OpenShift.  We intend to add support once
  Istio is supported on OpenShift.
